wiki/1

§ Contra Musk Ex-Twitterer

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

⚠️ This document tries to use "neutral" language in its descriptions.

A **Contra Musk Ex-Twitterer** is reactionary who dislikes of Elon Musk, who usually aligns with U.S. left-wing politics, and who left Twitter and joined another social-media platform because of their dislike of Elon Musk.

It should be noted that — these //other social-media platform// often include people who are either indifferent to Musk, or are even fans of Musk.
So although the **Contra Musk Ex-Twitterer** will find some like-minded people there — there will be many there who don't share their view.

§§ Exodus

Some of the **Contra Musk Ex-Twitterer**s joined //Bluesky//, as an alternative to Twitter.
Some of the **Contra Musk Ex-Twitterer**s joined the //Fediverse// (usually on a //Mastodon// community server, or later on Facebook Threads).

Most of the **Contra Musks Ex-Twitterer**s who joined the Fediverse joined on or after November 2022.
This mass migration from Twitter to the Fediverse that started on November 2022 is known both as the **Twitter-migration** and the [[eternal-november]].

§§ Contra Musk

Elon Musk was once acclaimed by many aligned with U.S. left-wing politics as a //champion// due to his investment and entrepreneurial activities with electric cars and solar energy technology, and thought of by some as a real-life version of (the fictional Marvel character) Tony Stark (who some may better know as //Iron Man//).
This left-wing admiration of Elon Musk eventually transformed into a dislike.

This left-wing dislike of Elon Musk seems to stem from Musk being critical of the U.S. Democratic Party and some instances of U.S. left-wing politics, as well as expressing that he would vote for Republican Party candidates due to his dissatisfaction with incumbent U.S. Democratic Party members.

Later, the dislike seemed to spread through in-group biased social-learning and conformity.

§§ Wants

• a **Contra Musk Ex-Twitterer** wants to //not// be on a Elon Mush run Twitter.

§§ Problems

• loosing some aspects of their pre-Elon Musk Twitter experience when they joined Mastodon, Bluesky, or Threads.
• resistance to making Mastodon or the Fediverse more like Twitter by people who have been part of the Fediverse before the Twitter-migration event.
• conflicts with people who have been part of the Fediverse before the Twitter-migration event over social norms — for example: //content-warnings//, //image-captions//, etc.

§§ See Also

• [[fediverse-archetypes]]
