wiki/1

§ Fediverse Archetypes

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

This document is a distillation of the **social-systems research** I did on the [[fediverse]].

This analysis is meant to be **descriptive**.
I.e., it is trying to list out what is there.
It is //not// a statement of what should or shouldn't be there.
And neither is it an endorsement or a condemnation of anything that is there.
It is **description** of what seems to be observed.

⚠️ **This document tries to use //"neutral"// language in its descriptions.** ⚠️

§§ Archetypes

🠶 archetypes (noun): an idealized model of a number of similar things.

From the point-of-view of **social-systems research** — an **archetype** is a model of some aspect of a person shared among many people.

(UX people tend to call "**archetypes**": "**personas**".
And marketers tend to call "**archetypes**": "**segments**".
In practice, all 3 of these are very similar concepts.)

Some examples of (non-Fediverse specific) **archetypes** include:

• father,
• mother,
• son,
• daughter
• brother,
• sister,
• husband,
• wife,
• gardener,
• farmer,
• computer programmer,
• grocery store cashier,
• CEO
• CTO
• etc.

You can also probably already see that an individual could express more than one **archetype**.
For example — a single individual could be — a //father//, a //husband//, a //brother//, a //son//, a //CTO//, and a //programmer// **at the same time** during a certain span of their life.

The **archetypes** an individual expresses could also change over their life-time too.
For example — before someone has a child, they wouldn't be a //father// or a //mother// yet; but after they have a child, they would (also) become a //father//, or a //mother// (in addition to whatever other archetypes they express).

This document includes **archetypes** relevant to the Fediverse that the author(s) have deemed "important" for a particular purpose.

§§ Table of Content

Here are the list of **archetypes** we found that were relevant to the Fediverse.

• Advocate
•• [[fediverse-accessibility-advocate]]
• Audience
•• [[lazy-watcher]]
• Content Creator
•• [[columnist]]
••• [[tech-columnist]]
•• [[diversified-creator]]
• Reactionary
•• [[contra-musk-ex-twitterer]]
